<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../resources/style.css" type="text/css" />
<title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Rule Variations</h1>

<p>
<table> 
<caption>Variations</caption> 
<tr> 
<th>Name</th> 
<th>Description</th> 
</tr> 
<tr> 
<td>No ad</td> 
<td>The first player or doubles team to win four points wins the game, regardless of whether the player or team is ahead by two points. When the game score reaches three points each, the receiver chooses which side 
of the court (advantage court or deuce court) the service is to be delivered on the seventh and game-deciding point.</td> 
</tr> 
<tr> 
<td>Pro set</td> 
<td>Instead of playing multiple sets, players may play one "pro set". A pro set is first to 8 (or 10) games by a margin of two games, instead of first to 6 games. A 12-point tie-break is usually played when the score 
is 8-8 (or 10-10). These are often played with no-ad scoring.</td> 
</tr> 
<tr> 
<td>Match tiebreak</td> 
<td>This is sometimes played instead of a third set. This is played like a regular tiebreak, but the winner must win ten points instead of seven. Match tiebreaks are used in the Hopman Cup for mixed doubles, on the 
ATP and WTA tours for doubles and as a player's choice in USTA league play.</td> 
</tr> 
</table>
</p>

<p>Another, however informal, tennis format is called Canadian doubles. This involves three players, with one person playing a doubles team. The single player gets to utilize the alleys normally reserved only for a 
doubles team. Conversely, the doubles team does not use the alleys when executing a shot. The scoring is the same as a regular game. This format is not sanctioned by any official body.</p>

<p>"Australian doubles", another informal and unsanctioned form of tennis, is played with similar rules to the "Canuk" style, only in this version, players rotate court position after each game. As such, each player 
plays doubles and singles over the course of a match, with the singles player always serving. Scoring styles vary, but one popular method is to assign a value of 2 points to each game, with the server taking both points 
if he or she holds serve and the doubles team each taking one if they break serve.</p>

<p>Wheelchair tennis can be played by able-bodied players as well as people who require a wheelchair for mobility. An extra bounce is permitted. This rule makes it possible to have mixed wheelchair and able-bodied 
matches. It is possible for a doubles team to consist of a wheelchair player and an able-bodied player (referred to as "one-up, one-down"), or for a wheelchair player to play against an able-bodied player. In such 
cases, the extra bounce is permitted for the wheelchair users only.</p>
	
</body>
</html>
