<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../resources/style.css" type="text/css" />
<title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Scoring</h1>

<p>A tennis match is determined through the best of 3 or 5 sets. Typically for both men's and women's matches, the first player to win two sets wins the match. At certain important tennis 
tournaments for men, including all four <gale:a href="grandslam">Grand Slam tournaments</gale:a>, Davis Cup and the final of the Olympic Games, the first player to win three sets wins 
the match. A set consists of games, and games, in turn, consist of points.</p>

<p>A game consists of a sequence of points played with the same player serving. A game is won by the first player to have won at least four points in total and at least two points more than 
the opponent. The running score of each game is described in a manner peculiar to tennis: scores from zero to three points are described as "love", "fifteen", "thirty", and "forty" respectively. 
If at least three points have been scored by each player, and the scores are equal, the score is "deuce". If at least three points have been scored by each side and a player has one more point 
than his opponent, the score of the game is "advantage" for the player in the lead. During informal games, "advantage" can also be called "ad in" or "ad out", depending on whether the serving 
player or receiving player is ahead, respectively.</p>

<p>In tournament play, the chair umpire calls the point count (e.g., "fifteen-love") after each point. The score of a tennis match during play is always read with the serving player's score first. 
After a match, the score is always read with the winning player's score first. At the end of a game, the chair umpire also announces the winner of the game and the overall score.</p>

<p>A game point occurs in tennis whenever the player who is in the lead in the game needs only one more point to win the game. The terminology is extended to sets (set point), matches (match point), 
and even championships (championship point). For example, if the player who is serving has a score of 40-love, the player has a triple game point (triple set point, etc.) as the player has three 
consecutive chances to win the game. Game points, set points, and match points are not part of official scoring and are not announced by the chair umpire in tournament play.</p>

<p>A break point occurs if the receiver, not the server, has a chance to win the game in the next rally. Break points are of particular importance because serving is generally advantageous. A 
receiver who has two (score of 15-40) or three (score of love-40) consecutive chances to win the game has double break point or triple break point, respectively. If the receiver does, in fact, 
win their break point, the receiver is said to have converted their break point, but if the receiver fails to win their break point it is called a failure to convert.</p>

<p>A set consists of a sequence of games played with service alternating between games, ending when the count of games won meets certain criteria. Typically, a player wins a set by winning at 
least six games and at least two games more than the opponent. If one player has won six games and the opponent five, an additional game is played. If the leading player wins that game, the player 
wins the set 7–5. If the trailing player wins the game, a tie-break is played. A tie-break, played under a separate set of rules, allows one player to win one more game and thus the set, to give a 
final set score of 7–6. Only in the final sets of matches at the Australian Open, the French Open, Wimbledon, the Olympic Games, Davis Cup, and Fed Cup are tie-breaks not played. In these cases, 
sets are played indefinitely until one player has a two-game lead. A "love" set means that the loser of the set won zero games. In tournament play, the chair umpire announces the winner of the 
set and the overall score.</p>

<p>In tournament play, the chair umpire announces the end of the match with the well-known phrase "Game, set, match" followed by the winning person's or team's name.</p>



</body>
</html>
