<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <title></title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>250 and 500 Series</h1>

<p>The International Series for men is split into two categories, both run by the ATP: the 250 Series and 500 Series. Like the <gale:a href="master1000">Masters 1000</gale:a>, these events offer various 
amounts of prize money, and some regular International Series events offer larger prize monies than 500 Series tournaments.[43] The Barclays Dubai Tennis Championships 
offer the largest financial incentive to players, with total prize money of US$1,426,000.</p>

<p>The ATP World Tour 500 series is a new series for tennis tournaments of the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) from the 2009 ATP World Tour, replacing the ATP International Series Gold, and 
incorporating many of the same events.[1] It is the third highest tier of men's tournament after <gale:a href="grandslam">the four Grand Slam tournaments</gale:a>, and <gale:a href="master1000">the ATP 
World Tour Masters 1000</gale:a>.<br>
The series includes 11 tournaments, with a number of 500 rankings points to win for the events' singles champions –which accounts for the name of the series. Tournaments have various draws of 32, 
48 and 56 for singles and 16 and 24 for doubles. It is mandatory for leading players to enter at least four 500 events, including at least one after the US Open; if they play less than four, or 
fail to play in one after the US Open they get a "zero" score towards their world ranking for each one short.</p>

<p>The ATP World Tour 250 series is a new series for tennis tournaments of the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) from the 2009 ATP World Tour. It is the lowest tier of events on the tour, and 
is a continuation of the ATP International Series.<br>
The series includes 40 tournaments, with a number of 250 rankings points to win for the events' singles champions –which accounts for the name of the series. All tournaments have a draw of 32 for singles 
and 16 for doubles, except for the AEGON Championships, which has a draw of 56 for singles and 24 for doubles.</p>

</body>