<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
 xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
 xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
  <meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
  <title></title>
</head>
<body>
<h1>ATP World Tour Masters 1000</h1>

<p>The ATP World Tour Masters 1000 is a series of nine tennis tournaments that are part of the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) tour, held annually throughout 
the year in Europe, North America and (as of 2009) Asia. The tournaments are important for the top male players on the professional circuit as the series constitutes 
the most prestigious tournaments in men's tennis after the four Grand Slam events and the ATP World Tour Finals.</p>

<p>The series was introduced in 1990 with the inception of the ATP Tour by bringing together the nine most prestigious tournaments of the Grand Prix Tennis Circuit. 
The events were originally known as "Championship Series, Single Week" events. From 1996 through 1999, the series was known as the Mercedes-Benz Super 9. In 2000, the 
name was changed to the Tennis Masters Series (TMS) and then changed to ATP Masters Series in 2004. The present name took effect in 2009.</p>

<p>Results in ATP Masters 1000 events earn players more world ranking points than regular tournaments, though not as many as Grand Slam events or the year-end ATP 
World Tour Finals. Up until 2007, most Masters Series finals were contested as best of five set matches. Currently, all Masters Series events are decided in best of 
three set matches. Rafael Nadal holds the record for the most titles with 18.</p>

</body>
</html>