<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../tutorial.css" type="text/css" />
<title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>History</h1>

<p>Some people believe that that the ancient Egyptians, Greeks, and
Romans played different versions of tennis. Drawings and descriptions of
any tennis-like games have not been discovered, but a few Arabic words
dating from ancient Egyptian times are cited as evidence. The theory
goes that the name tennis derives from the Egyptian town of Tinnis
alongside the Nile and the word racquet evolved from the Arabic word for
palm of the hand, rahat.</p>

<p>Aside from these two words, evidence for any form of tennis
preceding the year 1000 is lacking, and most historians credit the first
origins of the game to 11th or 12th century French monks, who began
playing a crude handball against their monastery walls or over a rope
strung across a courtyard. The game took on the name jeu de paume, which
means “game of the hand.” Many who dispute more ancient origins argue
that tennis derived from the French tenez, which meant something to the
effect of “take this,” said as one player would serve to the other.</p>

<p>As the game became more popular, courtyard playing areas began to
be modified into indoor courts, where the ball was still played off the
walls. After bare hands were found too uncomfortable, players began
using a glove, then either a glove with webbing between the fingers or a
solid paddle, followed by webbing attached to a handle–essentially a
racquet. Rubber balls were still centuries away, so the ball was a wad
of hair, wool, or cork wrapped in string and cloth or leather, then in
later years, hand-stitched in felt to look something like a modern
baseball.</p>


<p>This history of tennis page gives interesting insight about how
tennis evolved into the game that we love to play. The sport of tennis
has been played for hundreds of years, but the game as it is known today
is about 130 years old.</p>
<p></p>

</body>
</html>
