<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>Tennis...</h1>

<p>Tennis is a game played with a racket and a ball by two (as in
singles) or four (as in doubles) competitors, on a rectangular court
with a net strung between the midpoints of the longer sides of the
court. Tennis may be played indoors or outdoors. The game ranks as one
of the most popular spectator and participation sports in the world,
with fans and competitors in more than 100 countries. Originally called
lawn tennis to distinguish it from the sport of court tennis, from which
it was derived, the game is now commonly known as tennis.</p>

<p>The modern game of tennis originated in the United Kingdom in the
late 19th century as "lawn tennis" which has close connections to
various field/lawn games as well as to the ancient game of real tennis.
Until then, "tennis" referred to the latter sport: for example, in
Disraeli's novel Sybil (1845), Lord Eugene De Vere announces that he
will "go down to Hampton Court and play tennis. As it is the Derby
[classic horse race], nobody will be there".[1] After its creation, lawn
tennis spread throughout the upper-class English-speaking population
before spreading around the world.[2] Tennis is an Olympic sport and is
played at all levels of society at all ages. The sport can be played by
anyone who can hold a racket, including people in wheelchairs.</p>

<p>The rules of tennis have not changed much since the 1890s. Two
exceptions are that from 1908 to 1960 the server had to keep one foot on
the ground at all times, and then the adoption of the tie-break in the
1970s. A recent addition to professional tennis has been the adoption of
electronic review technology coupled with a point challenge system,
which allows a player to challenge the line (or chair) umpire's call of
a point. Players have unlimited opportunity to challenge, but once three
incorrect challenges are made in a set, they cannot challenge again
until the next set. If the set goes to a tie break, players are given
one additional opportunity to challenge the call. This electronic
review, currently called Hawk-Eye, is available at a limited number of
high-level ATP and WTA tournaments.</p>

<p>Tennis is enjoyed by millions of recreational players and is also
a hugely popular worldwide spectator sport, especially <gale:a
	href="grandslam">the four Grand Slam tournaments</gale:a> (also
referred to as the "Majors"): the Australian Open played on hard courts,
the French Open played on red clay courts, Wimbledon played on grass
courts, and the US Open played also on hard courts.</p>



</body>
</html>
