<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
	xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
	xmlns:gale="http://gale.tue.nl/adaptation">
<head>
<meta http-equiv="content-type" content="text/html; charset=UTF-8" />
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../resources/style.css" type="text/css" />
<title></title>
</head>

<body>
<h1>How to play</h1>

<p>Tennis is a four-point game played on a court and divided in the
middle by a net. A tennis match consists of games and sets. To win a
game, a player must simply win four points before their opponent. To win
a set, a player must be the first to win six games and must be ahead of
the other player by at least two games. To win a match, a player must
win the predetermined number of sets, usually two or three.</p>

<p>There is no time allotted for these games; play continues until a
competitor wins four points. If, however, players tie at six games each,
they continue playing games until one is ahead of the other by two, or
they may engage in a tiebreak game.</p>

<p>Play always begins with a serve. Players alternate turns serving,
and each in their turn is given two tries to hit a serve into the
opponent’s service area. One failed serve is called a fault; two is
called double fault, and a point is scored for the opponent. When a
serve lands successfully in the area of play, the other player attempts
to return in with their racket into the area of play on the other
person’s side of the net.</p>

<p>The ball may never bounce more than once before a player hits it.
If this happens, the opponent scores a point. After the serve, the
players continue to rally the ball back and forth under these guidelines
until one of them scores a point.</p>

<p>Further topics in this section:</p>
<ul>
<li>
<gale:a href="court">Court</gale:a>
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="lines">Lines</gale:a>
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="surfaces">Court surfaces</gale:a>
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="scoring">Scoring</gale:a>
</li>
<li>
<gale:a href="rulevar">Variation of the rules</gale:a>
</li>
</ul>



</body>
</html>
